So, the Heroku platform,
where we're gonna deploy our project,
works very closely with Git,
and so, in this lecture, we're gonna install
and set up Git on your computer
and also open an account at github.com.
Now if you're already familiar with Git and GitHub,
then please feel free to mark this video
and the next ones as completed,
and move on to the ones
where we actually deploy the project to Heroku.
So, in order to install Git, let's search for Git,
and then the first result that shows up,
which is git-scm should be the one that you're looking for.
Now, what actually is Git?
Well, Git is a version control software,
so a software that runs on your computer
and which basically allows you to save snapshots
of your code over time,
so that you can go back in time in your code if you need to.
And that is really only the surface.
So Git really is an incredibly complex and huge topic
and which could be a whole course on its own.
So, in this lecture and the next ones,
I will really just give you the very, very basics of Git.
All right.
So again, what you really need to know about Git
is that it's a version control software
which allows you to save your code over time
in different commits and branches.
And all of this happens inside a repository.
So, for each of your projects,
you will create a repository, and then, in there,
you will create commits and different branches,
and you will learn all of that in the next video.
All right.
Anyway, for now, let's actually go ahead and download Git.
And I will not do it now because, of course,
I already have Git installed.
So once you're done installing it,
let's open up the Terminal.
And to check if it's actually installed on your computer,
type git dash dash version.
And then, if you get any output,
well, then it means that your installation was successful.
Now, there are a bunch of different
graphical user interfaces
in order to interact with Git on your computer,
but I will show you everything you need to know
in order to get started with Git using the command line,
because I believe that it's actually a way better way
of learning to work with Git.
And also, once you're comfortable with most of the commands,
it's actually much faster and easier
to just use the command line
instead of messing with a graphical user interface.
All right.
Anyway, let's now go ahead
and create an account on github.com.
So that's GitHub, and so github.com
is where we want to now sign up for a new account.
And GitHub is basically a platform
where you can host your own Git repositories for free,
in order to share it with other developers
or just to keep it secure for yourself.
So, every single developer that I know
actually uses Git and GitHub,
and so, if you haven't used it up until this point,
then it's really a great time to join all the developers
that really rely on the service every single day.
So, of course, I'm not gonna create a new account here,
because I already have one,
but please go ahead and do that now.
And then, once you're ready, let's go back to the Terminal.
So, what I want to do now is to, very quickly,
configure your local Git installation
with the name and email address
that you just used on GitHub.
So that's git config, then dash dash global,
then user.name, and then your name.
So let's say that's Jonas Schmedtmann,
and then hit Enter, and that's it, all right?
So that's the name, and then also the email.
So that's git config, global, again,
user.email, and then your email here, also in quotes.
All right.
So, that's it for this video actually.
In the next one, we're then gonna learn
the real basics of Git.
All right, so after this video and the next two one,
I hope that you will really be able
to start using Git in your own projects,
which I believe is really important for you
as a professional developer.